Etcd prereq fixes (#159)
ondat/documentation: docs/prerequisites/etcd/etcd.md

---
title: "Etcd in Kubernetes"
linkTitle: Etcd - Recommended
weight: 600
---

Ondat requires an etcd cluster in order to function. For more information on
why etcd is required, see our [etcd concepts](/docs/concepts/etcd) page.

We do not support using the Kubernetes etcd for Ondat installations.

For most use-cases it is recommended installing the Ondat etcd operator, which
will manage creation and maintenance of Ondat's required etcd cluster. In some
circumstances it makes sense to install etcd on separate machines outside of
your Kubernetes cluster.

## Installing Etcd Into Your Kubernetes Cluster

This is our recommended way to host etcd, in both testing and production
environments.

## Configuring Storage for Etcd

We highly recommend using cloud provider network attached disks for storing
etcd data, such as EBS volumes, Google Persistent Disks, Azure Disks, etc. This
allows the etcd operator to recover from node failures.

> For testing environments a node-local storage option can be used, such as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For testing environments or where there are no resilient storage options available,
a node-local storage option can be used, such as
```

[Local Path Provisioner](https://github.com/rancher/local-path-provisioner).
This will store etcd data on the node hosting an etcd pod

> > ⚠️ The `local-path` StorageClass is only recommended for **non production**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> ⚠️ The `local-path` StorageClass is only recommended when other, better
```

> > clusters, as this stores all the data of the `etcd` peers locally, which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> storage classes are not available, as this stores 
> all the data of the `etcd` peers locally, which
```

> > makes it susceptible to state being lost on node failures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> makes it susceptible to state being lost on node failures.
> In the case of `local-path` storage, a minimum of 5 etcd nodes
> is recommended to increase resilience.
```

Reviewer 2: FYI it's recommended to run 5 nodes even when using EBS (or other cloud disks)

### **Recommended:** Installing the etcd operator via our helm chart

For full instructions, visit [Ondat Helm
Chart](https://github.com/ondat/charts/tree/main/charts/ondat) repository.

### **Recommended:** Installing Ondat (and the etcd operator) via our Plugin

```
kubectl storageos install \
    --include-etcd \
    --etcd-storage-class <the storage class you want to use for etcd> \
    --etcd-tls-enabled
```

### **Configurable:** Manually applying an `etcdcluster` custom resource

This installation method allows the most configuration of the etcd cluster, but

> is the most error-prone.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is error-prone and therefore not recommended in situations in which the Helm chart
or plugin can be used, instead.
```
